docs/docs/references/configuration/cli/trivy_vm.md, before:

## trivy vm

[EXPERIMENTAL] Scan a virtual machine image

```
trivy vm [flags] VM_IMAGE
```

### Examples

```
  # Scan your AWS AMI
  $ trivy vm --scanners vuln ami:${your_ami_id}

  # Scan your AWS EBS snapshot
  $ trivy vm ebs:${your_ebs_snapshot_id}

```

### Options

```
      --aws-region string               AWS region to scan
      --cache-backend string            cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration              cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache                     clear image caches without scanning
      --compliance string               compliance report to generate
      --custom-headers strings          custom headers in client mode
      --db-repository string            OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --dependency-tree                 [EXPERIMENTAL] show dependency origin tree of vulnerable packages
      --download-db-only                download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --download-java-db-only           download/update Java index database but don't run a scan
      --enable-modules strings          [EXPERIMENTAL] module names to enable
      --exit-code int                   specify exit code when any security issues are found
      --exit-on-eol int                 exit with the specified code when the OS reaches end of service/life
      --file-patterns strings           specify config file patterns
  -f, --format string                   format (table,json,template,sarif,cyclonedx,spdx,spdx-json,github,cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --helm-set strings                specify Helm values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-set-file strings           specify Helm values from respective files specified via the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=path1,key2=path2)
      --helm-set-string strings         specify Helm string values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-values strings             specify paths to override the Helm values.yaml files
  -h, --help                            help for vm
      --ignore-policy string            specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignore-unfixed                  display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --ignorefile string               specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --include-non-failures            include successes and exceptions, available with '--scanners config'
      --java-db-repository string       OCI repository to retrieve trivy-java-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db")
      --keep-system-installed-files     keep system installed files in analysis result output
      --list-all-pkgs                   enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
      --module-dir string               specify directory to the wasm modules that will be loaded (default "$HOME/.trivy/modules")
      --no-progress                     suppress progress bar
      --offline-scan                    do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
  -o, --output string                   output file name
      --redis-ca string                 redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string               redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string                redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-tls                       enable redis TLS with public certificates, if using redis as cache backend
      --rekor-url string                [EXPERIMENTAL] address of rekor STL server (default "https://rekor.sigstore.dev")
      --reset                           remove all caches and database
      --reset-policy-bundle             remove policy bundle
      --sbom-sources strings            [EXPERIMENTAL] try to retrieve SBOM from the specified sources (oci,rekor)
      --scanners strings                comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret,license) (default [vuln,secret])
      --secret-config string            specify a path to config file for secret scanning (default "trivy-secret.yaml")
      --server string                   server address in client mode
  -s, --severity strings                severities of security issues to be displayed (UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL) (default [UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL])
      --skip-db-update                  skip updating vulnerability database
      --skip-dirs strings               specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings              specify the file paths to skip traversal
      --skip-java-db-update             skip updating Java index database
      --slow                            scan over time with lower CPU and memory utilization
  -t, --template string                 output template
      --tf-exclude-downloaded-modules   remove results for downloaded modules in .terraform folder
      --tf-vars strings                 specify paths to override the Terraform tfvars files
      --token string                    for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string             specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")
      --vuln-type strings               comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default [os,library])
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/path/to/cache")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```

### SEE ALSO

* [trivy](trivy.md)	 - Unified security scanner

Commit message:

rename to retain system installed files

docs/docs/references/configuration/cli/trivy_vm.md, after:

## trivy vm

[EXPERIMENTAL] Scan a virtual machine image

```
trivy vm [flags] VM_IMAGE
```

### Examples

```
  # Scan your AWS AMI
  $ trivy vm --scanners vuln ami:${your_ami_id}

  # Scan your AWS EBS snapshot
  $ trivy vm ebs:${your_ebs_snapshot_id}

```

### Options

```
      --aws-region string               AWS region to scan
      --cache-backend string            cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration              cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache                     clear image caches without scanning
      --compliance string               compliance report to generate
      --custom-headers strings          custom headers in client mode
      --db-repository string            OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --dependency-tree                 [EXPERIMENTAL] show dependency origin tree of vulnerable packages
      --download-db-only                download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --download-java-db-only           download/update Java index database but don't run a scan
      --enable-modules strings          [EXPERIMENTAL] module names to enable
      --exit-code int                   specify exit code when any security issues are found
      --exit-on-eol int                 exit with the specified code when the OS reaches end of service/life
      --file-patterns strings           specify config file patterns
  -f, --format string                   format (table,json,template,sarif,cyclonedx,spdx,spdx-json,github,cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --helm-set strings                specify Helm values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-set-file strings           specify Helm values from respective files specified via the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=path1,key2=path2)
      --helm-set-string strings         specify Helm string values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-values strings             specify paths to override the Helm values.yaml files
  -h, --help                            help for vm
      --ignore-policy string            specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignore-unfixed                  display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --ignorefile string               specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --include-non-failures            include successes and exceptions, available with '--scanners config'
      --java-db-repository string       OCI repository to retrieve trivy-java-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db")
      --list-all-pkgs                   enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
      --module-dir string               specify directory to the wasm modules that will be loaded (default "$HOME/.trivy/modules")
      --no-progress                     suppress progress bar
      --offline-scan                    do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
  -o, --output string                   output file name
      --redis-ca string                 redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string               redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string                redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-tls                       enable redis TLS with public certificates, if using redis as cache backend
      --rekor-url string                [EXPERIMENTAL] address of rekor STL server (default "https://rekor.sigstore.dev")
      --reset                           remove all caches and database
      --reset-policy-bundle             remove policy bundle
      --retain-system-installed-files   Retains the files installed by each package in the analysis output when set to true.
      --sbom-sources strings            [EXPERIMENTAL] try to retrieve SBOM from the specified sources (oci,rekor)
      --scanners strings                comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret,license) (default [vuln,secret])
      --secret-config string            specify a path to config file for secret scanning (default "trivy-secret.yaml")
      --server string                   server address in client mode
  -s, --severity strings                severities of security issues to be displayed (UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL) (default [UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL])
      --skip-db-update                  skip updating vulnerability database
      --skip-dirs strings               specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings              specify the file paths to skip traversal
      --skip-java-db-update             skip updating Java index database
      --slow                            scan over time with lower CPU and memory utilization
  -t, --template string                 output template
      --tf-exclude-downloaded-modules   remove results for downloaded modules in .terraform folder
      --tf-vars strings                 specify paths to override the Terraform tfvars files
      --token string                    for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string             specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")
      --vuln-type strings               comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default [os,library])
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/path/to/cache")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```

### SEE ALSO

* [trivy](trivy.md)	 - Unified security scanner
