docs/docs/references/configuration/cli/trivy_image.md, before:

## trivy image

Scan a container image

```
trivy image [flags] IMAGE_NAME
```

### Examples

```
  # Scan a container image
  $ trivy image python:3.4-alpine

  # Scan a container image from a tar archive
  $ trivy image --input ruby-3.1.tar

  # Filter by severities
  $ trivy image --severity HIGH,CRITICAL alpine:3.15

  # Ignore unfixed/unpatched vulnerabilities
  $ trivy image --ignore-unfixed alpine:3.15

  # Scan a container image in client mode
  $ trivy image --server http://127.0.0.1:4954 alpine:latest

  # Generate json result
  $ trivy image --format json --output result.json alpine:3.15

  # Generate a report in the CycloneDX format
  $ trivy image --format cyclonedx --output result.cdx alpine:3.15
```

### Options

```
      --cache-backend string             cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration               cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache                      clear image caches without scanning
      --compliance string                compliance report to generate (docker-cis)
      --config-data strings              specify paths from which data for the Rego policies will be recursively loaded
      --config-policy strings            specify the paths to the Rego policy files or to the directories containing them, applying config files
      --custom-headers strings           custom headers in client mode
      --db-repository string             OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --dependency-tree                  [EXPERIMENTAL] show dependency origin tree of vulnerable packages
      --docker-host string               unix domain socket path to use for docker scanning
      --download-db-only                 download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --download-java-db-only            download/update Java index database but don't run a scan
      --enable-modules strings           [EXPERIMENTAL] module names to enable
      --exit-code int                    specify exit code when any security issues are found
      --exit-on-eol int                  exit with the specified code when the OS reaches end of service/life
      --file-patterns strings            specify config file patterns
  -f, --format string                    format (table,json,template,sarif,cyclonedx,spdx,spdx-json,github,cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --helm-set strings                 specify Helm values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-set-file strings            specify Helm values from respective files specified via the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=path1,key2=path2)
      --helm-set-string strings          specify Helm string values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-values strings              specify paths to override the Helm values.yaml files
  -h, --help                             help for image
      --ignore-policy string             specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignore-unfixed                   display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --ignored-licenses strings         specify a list of license to ignore
      --ignorefile string                specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --image-config-scanners strings    comma-separated list of what security issues to detect on container image configurations (config,secret)
      --image-src strings                image source(s) to use, in priority order (docker,containerd,podman,remote) (default [docker,containerd,podman,remote])
      --include-non-failures             include successes and exceptions, available with '--scanners config'
      --input string                     input file path instead of image name
      --java-db-repository string        OCI repository to retrieve trivy-java-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db")
      --keep-system-installed-files      keep system installed files in analysis result output
      --license-confidence-level float   specify license classifier's confidence level (default 0.9)
      --license-full                     eagerly look for licenses in source code headers and license files
      --list-all-pkgs                    enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
      --module-dir string                specify directory to the wasm modules that will be loaded (default "$HOME/.trivy/modules")
      --no-progress                      suppress progress bar
      --offline-scan                     do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
  -o, --output string                    output file name
      --password strings                 password. Comma-separated passwords allowed. TRIVY_PASSWORD should be used for security reasons.
      --platform string                  set platform in the form os/arch if image is multi-platform capable
      --policy-namespaces strings        Rego namespaces
      --redis-ca string                  redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string                redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string                 redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-tls                        enable redis TLS with public certificates, if using redis as cache backend
      --registry-token string            registry token
      --rekor-url string                 [EXPERIMENTAL] address of rekor STL server (default "https://rekor.sigstore.dev")
      --removed-pkgs                     detect vulnerabilities of removed packages (only for Alpine)
      --report string                    specify a format for the compliance report. (all,summary) (default "summary")
      --reset                            remove all caches and database
      --reset-policy-bundle              remove policy bundle
      --sbom-sources strings             [EXPERIMENTAL] try to retrieve SBOM from the specified sources (oci,rekor)
      --scanners strings                 comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret,license) (default [vuln,secret])
      --secret-config string             specify a path to config file for secret scanning (default "trivy-secret.yaml")
      --server string                    server address in client mode
  -s, --severity strings                 severities of security issues to be displayed (UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL) (default [UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL])
      --skip-db-update                   skip updating vulnerability database
      --skip-dirs strings                specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings               specify the file paths to skip traversal
      --skip-java-db-update              skip updating Java index database
      --skip-policy-update               skip fetching rego policy updates
      --slow                             scan over time with lower CPU and memory utilization
  -t, --template string                  output template
      --tf-exclude-downloaded-modules    remove results for downloaded modules in .terraform folder
      --tf-vars strings                  specify paths to override the Terraform tfvars files
      --token string                     for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string              specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")
      --trace                            enable more verbose trace output for custom queries
      --username strings                 username. Comma-separated usernames allowed.
      --vuln-type strings                comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default [os,library])
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/path/to/cache")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```

### SEE ALSO

* [trivy](trivy.md)	 - Unified security scanner

Commit message:

rename to retain system installed files

docs/docs/references/configuration/cli/trivy_image.md, after:

## trivy image

Scan a container image

```
trivy image [flags] IMAGE_NAME
```

### Examples

```
  # Scan a container image
  $ trivy image python:3.4-alpine

  # Scan a container image from a tar archive
  $ trivy image --input ruby-3.1.tar

  # Filter by severities
  $ trivy image --severity HIGH,CRITICAL alpine:3.15

  # Ignore unfixed/unpatched vulnerabilities
  $ trivy image --ignore-unfixed alpine:3.15

  # Scan a container image in client mode
  $ trivy image --server http://127.0.0.1:4954 alpine:latest

  # Generate json result
  $ trivy image --format json --output result.json alpine:3.15

  # Generate a report in the CycloneDX format
  $ trivy image --format cyclonedx --output result.cdx alpine:3.15
```

### Options

```
      --cache-backend string             cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration               cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache                      clear image caches without scanning
      --compliance string                compliance report to generate (docker-cis)
      --config-data strings              specify paths from which data for the Rego policies will be recursively loaded
      --config-policy strings            specify the paths to the Rego policy files or to the directories containing them, applying config files
      --custom-headers strings           custom headers in client mode
      --db-repository string             OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --dependency-tree                  [EXPERIMENTAL] show dependency origin tree of vulnerable packages
      --docker-host string               unix domain socket path to use for docker scanning
      --download-db-only                 download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --download-java-db-only            download/update Java index database but don't run a scan
      --enable-modules strings           [EXPERIMENTAL] module names to enable
      --exit-code int                    specify exit code when any security issues are found
      --exit-on-eol int                  exit with the specified code when the OS reaches end of service/life
      --file-patterns strings            specify config file patterns
  -f, --format string                    format (table,json,template,sarif,cyclonedx,spdx,spdx-json,github,cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --helm-set strings                 specify Helm values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-set-file strings            specify Helm values from respective files specified via the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=path1,key2=path2)
      --helm-set-string strings          specify Helm string values on the command line (can specify multiple or separate values with commas: key1=val1,key2=val2)
      --helm-values strings              specify paths to override the Helm values.yaml files
  -h, --help                             help for image
      --ignore-policy string             specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignore-unfixed                   display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --ignored-licenses strings         specify a list of license to ignore
      --ignorefile string                specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --image-config-scanners strings    comma-separated list of what security issues to detect on container image configurations (config,secret)
      --image-src strings                image source(s) to use, in priority order (docker,containerd,podman,remote) (default [docker,containerd,podman,remote])
      --include-non-failures             include successes and exceptions, available with '--scanners config'
      --input string                     input file path instead of image name
      --java-db-repository string        OCI repository to retrieve trivy-java-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db")
      --license-confidence-level float   specify license classifier's confidence level (default 0.9)
      --license-full                     eagerly look for licenses in source code headers and license files
      --list-all-pkgs                    enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
      --module-dir string                specify directory to the wasm modules that will be loaded (default "$HOME/.trivy/modules")
      --no-progress                      suppress progress bar
      --offline-scan                     do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
  -o, --output string                    output file name
      --password strings                 password. Comma-separated passwords allowed. TRIVY_PASSWORD should be used for security reasons.
      --platform string                  set platform in the form os/arch if image is multi-platform capable
      --policy-namespaces strings        Rego namespaces
      --redis-ca string                  redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string                redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string                 redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-tls                        enable redis TLS with public certificates, if using redis as cache backend
      --registry-token string            registry token
      --rekor-url string                 [EXPERIMENTAL] address of rekor STL server (default "https://rekor.sigstore.dev")
      --removed-pkgs                     detect vulnerabilities of removed packages (only for Alpine)
      --report string                    specify a format for the compliance report. (all,summary) (default "summary")
      --reset                            remove all caches and database
      --reset-policy-bundle              remove policy bundle
      --retain-system-installed-files    Retains the files installed by each package in the analysis output when set to true.
      --sbom-sources strings             [EXPERIMENTAL] try to retrieve SBOM from the specified sources (oci,rekor)
      --scanners strings                 comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret,license) (default [vuln,secret])
      --secret-config string             specify a path to config file for secret scanning (default "trivy-secret.yaml")
      --server string                    server address in client mode
  -s, --severity strings                 severities of security issues to be displayed (UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL) (default [UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL])
      --skip-db-update                   skip updating vulnerability database
      --skip-dirs strings                specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings               specify the file paths to skip traversal
      --skip-java-db-update              skip updating Java index database
      --skip-policy-update               skip fetching rego policy updates
      --slow                             scan over time with lower CPU and memory utilization
  -t, --template string                  output template
      --tf-exclude-downloaded-modules    remove results for downloaded modules in .terraform folder
      --tf-vars strings                  specify paths to override the Terraform tfvars files
      --token string                     for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string              specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")
      --trace                            enable more verbose trace output for custom queries
      --username strings                 username. Comma-separated usernames allowed.
      --vuln-type strings                comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default [os,library])
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/path/to/cache")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```

### SEE ALSO

* [trivy](trivy.md)	 - Unified security scanner
